Whats new blog post for July 2023 (#22)
coder/blogs: changelogs/2023-07/index.md

---
title: What's New in July 2023
date: July 1, 2023
author: Marc Paquette
---

> This month's new features give admins better insight into their Coder instance and give developers support for Developer Containers and OpenStack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This month's new features give admins better insight into their Coder instance and give developers support for Devcontainers and OpenStack.
```

## Grafana Dashboard

![Grafana dashboard](./static/grafana-dashboard.png)

> [Scaling](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/admin/scale) Coder is easier to monitor with support for [Grafana](https://grafana.com/). Coder can already generate [Prometheus metrics](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/admin/prometheus). Now you can keep an eye on these metrics in a Grafana dashboard.

Reviewer: Let's re-word this to say that we provide a sample Grafana dashboard that customers can import. It contains important Prometheus metrics around scaling Coder and measuring adoption.

## Agent Metadata

Developers can see realtime CPU usage, disk usage, or almost any other information about a running workspace with [agent metadata](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/templates/agent-metadata).

> 

Reviewer: I can add a screenshot here

You can get CPU and memory usage information for the workspace with the `coder stat` command. This command gives more accurate usage info than `top` and `free`, which show usage for the host machine, not the container.

## Workspace Proxies

You can reduce network latency for geographically distributed teams with [workspace proxies](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/admin/workspace-proxies). A workspace proxy relays the connection between your Coder instance and a remote developer.

Coder's makes the best effort to connect directly to a workspace. In situations when this isn't possible, like developing with a [web IDE or the web terminal](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/ides/web-ides), workspace proxies can reduce latency.

Setting up a workspace proxy is easy: just 2 commands let you support developers in other time zones.

Developers can choose the fastest workspace proxy for them.

![Choosing a workspace proxy](./static/choosing-workspace-proxy.png)

Coder also shows latency times at the bottom of the workspace and web terminal pages.

![Latency in the web terminal](./static/web-terminal-latency.png)

> ## Developer Containers

Reviewer: I think we should just call them devcontainers
